---
layout: post
title: Sometimes You Have to Lower the Bar to Inspire Great Work
date: 2024-11-30
location: Toronto, Canada
author: Murdo
---

Sometimes, people just need permission to adjust their idea of good.

---

At Shopify, we’re remote-first; this means live and asynchronous demos of your work are incredibly important for two reasons:
1. You share for others, not yourself, so they can understand, align with, or debate your work to improve it. 
2. You share for yourself, not others, so leaders see the value of your ideas and contributions.

But sharing demos doesn’t come naturally to everyone. Hitting record—or presenting live—can be intimidating. I saw many of my team hit this exact wall when I introduced twice weekly Office Hours for everyone to get together and share early or completed work. 

The most common hesitation I heard? ‘I don’t know if my work is good enough.’ My reply: ‘You’ve seen my demos, right?

See, I come nearly every time with the smallest of demos. One week, I rambled about Mermaid diagrams. Another, I shared a simple Python script for GitHub data. Once, I just demoed Descript’s main features. I lower the bar so far, it removes the pressure to perform and helps everyone get in the practice needed for when the demo really matters. 

Ultimately, I’m the warm-up act for the main event: my team of crafters showing off the incredible work they do every week. I’m redefining ‘good,’ lowering the perfection bar, and making space for every win—big or small.